1801. - I have just returned from a visit to my landlord - the solitary neighbour that I shall be troubled with.This is certainly a beautiful country! In all England, I do not believe that I could have fixed on a situation socompletely removed from the stir of society. A perfect misanthropist's heaven: and Mr. Heathcliff and I aresuch a suitable pair to divide the desolation between us. A capital fellow! He little imagined how my heartwarmed towards him when I beheld his black eyes withdraw so suspiciously under their brows, as I rode up,and when his fingers sheltered themselves, with a jealous resolution, still further in his waistcoat, as Iannounced my name.'Mr. Heathcliff?' I said.A nod was the answer.'Mr. Lockwood, your new tenant, sir. I do myself the honour of calling as soon as possible after my arrival, toexpress the hope that I have not inconvenienced you by my perseverance in soliciting the occupation ofThrushcross Grange: I heard yesterday you had had some thoughts - ''Thrushcross Grange is my own, sir,' he interrupted, wincing. 'I should not allow any one to inconvenience me,if I could hinder it - walk in!'The 'walk in' was uttered with closed teeth, and expressed the sentiment, 'Go to the Deuce:' even the gate overwhich he leant manifested no sympathising movement to the words; and I think that circumstance determinedme to accept the invitation: I felt interested in a man who seemed more exaggeratedly reserved than myself.When he saw my horse's breast fairly pushing the barrier, he did put out his hand to unchain it, and thensullenly preceded me up the causeway, calling, as we entered the court, - 'Joseph, take Mr. Lockwood's horse;and bring up some wine.''Here we have the whole establishment of domestics, I suppose,' was the reflection suggested by thiscompound order. 'No wonder the grass grows up between the flags, and cattle are the only hedge- cutters.'Joseph was an elderly, nay, an old man: very old, perhaps, though hale and sinewy. 'The Lord help us!' hesoliloquised in an undertone of peevish displeasure, while relieving me of my horse: looking, meantime, inmy face so sourly that I charitably conjectured he must have need of divine aid to digest his dinner, and hispious ejaculation had no reference to my unexpected advent.Wuthering Heights is the name of Mr. Heathcliff's dwelling. 'Wuthering' being a significant provincialadjective, descriptive of the atmospheric tumult to which its station is exposed in stormy weather. Pure,bracing ventilation they must have up there at all times, indeed: one may guess the power of the north windblowing over the edge, by the excessive slant of a few stunted firs at the end of the house; and by a range ofgaunt thorns all stretching their limbs one way, as if craving alms of the sun. Happily, the architect hadforesight to build it strong: the narrow windows are deeply set in the wall, and the corners defended with largejutting stones.Before passing the threshold, I paused to admire a quantity of grotesque carving lavished over the front, andespecially about the principal door; above which, among a wilderness of crumbling griffins and shamelesslittle boys, I detected the date '1500,' and the name 'Hareton Earnshaw.' I would have made a few comments,and requested a short history of the place from the surly owner; but his attitude at the door appeared todemand my speedy entrance, or complete departure, and I had no desire to aggravate his impatience previousto inspecting the penetralium.One stop brought us into the family sitting-room, without any introductory lobby or passage: they call it here'the house' pre- eminently. It includes kitchen and parlour, generally; but I believe at Wuthering Heights thekitchen is forced to retreat altogether into another quarter: at least I distinguished a chatter of tongues, and aclatter of culinary utensils, deep within; and I observed no signs of roasting, boiling, or baking, about the hugefireplace; nor any glitter of copper saucepans and tin cullenders on the walls. One end, indeed, reflectedsplendidly both light and heat from ranks of immense pewter dishes, interspersed with silver jugs andtankards, towering row after row, on a vast oak dresser, to the very roof. The latter had never beenunder-drawn: its entire anatomy lay bare to an inquiring eye, except where a frame of wood laden withoatcakes and clusters of legs of beef, mutton, and ham, concealed it. Above the chimney were sundryvillainous old guns, and a couple of horse-pistols: and, by way of ornament, three gaudily-painted canistersdisposed along its ledge. The floor was of smooth, white stone; the chairs, high-backed, primitive structures,painted green: one or two heavy black ones lurking in the shade. In an arch under the dresser reposed a huge,liver-coloured bitch pointer, surrounded by a swarm of squealing puppies; and other dogs haunted otherrecesses.The apartment and furniture would have been nothing extraordinary as belonging to a homely, northernfarmer, with a stubborn countenance, and stalwart limbs set out to advantage in knee- breeches and gaiters.Such an individual seated in his arm-chair, his mug of ale frothing on the round table before him, is to be seenin any circuit of five or six miles among these hills, if you go at the right time after dinner. But Mr. Heathcliffforms a singular contrast to his abode and style of living. He is a dark- skinned gipsy in aspect, in dress andmanners a gentleman: that is, as much a gentleman as many a country squire: rather slovenly, perhaps, yet notlooking amiss with his negligence, because he has an erect and handsome figure; and rather morose. Possibly,some people might suspect him of a degree of under-bred pride; I have a sympathetic chord within that tellsme it is nothing of the sort: I know, by instinct, his reserve springs from an aversion to showy displays offeeling - to manifestations of mutual kindliness. He'll love and hate equally under cover, and esteem it aspecies of impertinence to be loved or hated again. No, I'm running on too fast: I bestow my own attributesover-liberally on him. Mr. Heathcliff may have entirely dissimilar reasons for keeping his hand out of the waywhen he meets a would-be acquaintance, to those which actuate me. Let me hope my constitution is almostpeculiar: my dear mother used to say I should never have a comfortable home; and only last summer I provedmyself perfectly unworthy of one.While enjoying a month of fine weather at the sea-coast, I was thrown into the company of a most fascinatingcreature: a real goddess in my eyes, as long as she took no notice of me. I 'never told my love' vocally; still, iflooks have language, the merest idiot might have guessed I was over head and ears: she understood me at last,and looked a return - the sweetest of all imaginable looks. And what did I do? I confess it with shame - shrunkicily into myself, like a snail; at every glance retired colder and farther; till finally the poor innocent was led todoubt her own senses, and, overwhelmed with confusion at her supposed mistake, persuaded her mamma todecamp. By this curious turn of disposition I have gained the reputation of deliberate heartlessness; howundeserved, I alone can appreciate.I took a seat at the end of the hearthstone opposite that towards which my landlord advanced, and filled up aninterval of silence by attempting to caress the canine mother, who had left her nursery, and was sneakingwolfishly to the back of my legs, her lip curled up, and her white teeth watering for a snatch. My caressprovoked a long, guttural gnarl.'You'd better let the dog alone,' growled Mr. Heathcliff in unison, checking fiercer demonstrations with apunch of his foot. 'She's not accustomed to be spoiled - not kept for a pet.' Then, striding to a side door, heshouted again, 'Joseph!'Joseph mumbled indistinctly in the depths of the cellar, but gave no intimation of ascending; so his masterdived down to him, leaving me VIS-A-VIS the ruffianly bitch and a pair of grim shaggy sheep-dogs, whoshared with her a jealous guardianship over all my movements. Not anxious to come in contact with theirfangs, I sat still; but, imagining they would scarcely understand tacit insults, I unfortunately indulged inwinking and making faces at the trio, and some turn of my physiognomy so irritated madam, that shesuddenly broke into a fury and leapt on my knees. I flung her back, and hastened to interpose the tablebetween us. This proceeding aroused the whole hive: half-a-dozen four-footed fiends, of various sizes andages, issued from hidden dens to the common centre. I felt my heels and coat-laps peculiar subjects of assault;and parrying off the larger combatants as effectually as I could with the poker, I was constrained to demand,aloud, assistance from some of the household in re-establishing peace.Mr. Heathcliff and his man climbed the cellar steps with vexatious phlegm: I don't think they moved onesecond faster than usual, though the hearth was an absolute tempest of worrying and yelping. Happily, aninhabitant of the kitchen made more despatch: a lusty dame, with tucked-up gown, bare arms, and fire-flushedcheeks, rushed into the midst of us flourishing a frying-pan: and used that weapon, and her tongue, to suchpurpose, that the storm subsided magically, and she only remained, heaving like a sea after a high wind, whenher master entered on the scene.'What the devil is the matter?' he asked, eyeing me in a manner that I could ill endure, after this inhospitabletreatment.'What the devil, indeed!' I muttered. 'The herd of possessed swine could have had no worse spirits in themthan those animals of yours, sir. You might as well leave a stranger with a brood of tigers!''They won't meddle with persons who touch nothing,' he remarked, putting the bottle before me, and restoringthe displaced table. 'The dogs do right to be vigilant. Take a glass of wine?''No, thank you.''Not bitten, are you?''If I had been, I would have set my signet on the biter.' Heathcliff's countenance relaxed into a grin.'Come, come,' he said, 'you are flurried, Mr. Lockwood. Here, take a little wine. Guests are so exceedinglyrare in this house that I and my dogs, I am willing to own, hardly know how to receive them. Your health, sir?'I bowed and returned the pledge; beginning to perceive that it would be foolish to sit sulking for themisbehaviour of a pack of curs; besides, I felt loth to yield the fellow further amusement at my expense; sincehis humour took that turn. He - probably swayed by prudential consideration of the folly of offending a goodtenant - relaxed a little in the laconic style of chipping off his pronouns and auxiliary verbs, and introducedwhat he supposed would be a subject of interest to me, - a discourse on the advantages and disadvantages ofmy present place of retirement. I found him very intelligent on the topics we touched; and before I went home,I was encouraged so far as to volunteer another visit to-morrow. He evidently wished no repetition of myintrusion. I shall go, notwithstanding. It is astonishing how sociable I feel myself compared with him.YESTERDAY afternoon set in misty and cold. I had half a mind to spend it by my study fire, instead ofwading through heath and mud to Wuthering Heights. On coming up from dinner, however, (N.B. - I dinebetween twelve and one o'clock; the housekeeper, a matronly lady, taken as a fixture along with the house,could not, or would not, comprehend my request that I might be served at five) - on mounting the stairs withthis lazy intention, and stepping into the room, I saw a servant-girl on her knees surrounded by brushes andcoal-scuttles, and raising an infernal dust as she extinguished the flames with heaps of cinders. This spectacledrove me back immediately; I took my hat, and, after a four-miles' walk, arrived at Heathcliff's garden-gatejust in time to escape the first feathery flakes of a snow-shower.On that bleak hill-top the earth was hard with a black frost, and the air made me shiver through every limb.Being unable to remove the chain, I jumped over, and, running up the flagged causeway bordered withstraggling gooseberry-bushes, knocked vainly for admittance, till my knuckles tingled and the dogs howled.'Wretched inmates!' I ejaculated, mentally, 'you deserve perpetual isolation from your species for yourchurlish inhospitality. At least, I would not keep my doors barred in the day-time. I don't care - I will get in!'So resolved, I grasped the latch and shook it vehemently. Vinegar-faced Joseph projected his head from around window of the barn.'What are ye for?' he shouted. 'T' maister's down i' t' fowld. Go round by th' end o' t' laith, if ye went to spaketo him.''Is there nobody inside to open the door?' I hallooed, responsively.'There's nobbut t' missis; and shoo'll not oppen 't an ye mak' yer flaysome dins till neeght.''Why? Cannot you tell her whom I am, eh, Joseph?''Nor-ne me! I'll hae no hend wi't,' muttered the head, vanishing.The snow began to drive thickly. I seized the handle to essay another trial; when a young man without coat,and shouldering a pitchfork, appeared in the yard behind. He hailed me to follow him, and, after marchingthrough a wash-house, and a paved area containing a coal-shed, pump, and pigeon-cot, we at length arrived inthe huge, warm, cheerful apartment where I was formerly received. It glowed delightfully in the radiance ofan immense fire, compounded of coal, peat, and wood; and near the table, laid for a plentiful evening meal, Iwas pleased to observe the 'missis,' an individual whose existence I had never previously suspected. I bowedand waited, thinking she would bid me take a seat. She looked at me, leaning back in her chair, and remainedmotionless and mute.'Rough weather!' I remarked. 'I'm afraid, Mrs. Heathcliff, the door must bear the consequence of yourservants' leisure attendance: I had hard work to make them hear me.'She never opened her mouth. I stared - she stared also: at any rate, she kept her eyes on me in a cool,regardless manner, exceedingly embarrassing and disagreeable.'Sit down,' said the young man, gruffly. 'He'll be in soon.'I obeyed; and hemmed, and called the villain Juno, who deigned, at this second interview, to move theextreme tip of her tail, in token of owning my acquaintance.'A beautiful animal!' I commenced again. 'Do you intend parting with the little ones, madam?''They are not mine,' said the amiable hostess, more repellingly than Heathcliff himself could have replied.'Ah, your favourites are among these?' I continued, turning to an obscure cushion full of something like cats.'A strange choice of favourites!' she observed scornfully.Unluckily, it was a heap of dead rabbits. I hemmed once more, and drew closer to the hearth, repeating mycomment on the wildness of the evening.'You should not have come out,' she said, rising and reaching from the chimney-piece two of the paintedcanisters.Her position before was sheltered from the light; now, I had a distinct view of her whole figure andcountenance. She was slender, and apparently scarcely past girlhood: an admirable form, and the mostexquisite little face that I have ever had the pleasure of beholding; small features, very fair; flaxen ringlets, orrather golden, hanging loose on her delicate neck; and eyes, had they been agreeable in expression, that wouldhave been irresistible: fortunately for my susceptible heart, the only sentiment they evinced hovered betweenscorn and a kind of desperation, singularly unnatural to be detected there. The canisters were almost out of herreach; I made a motion to aid her; she turned upon me as a miser might turn if any one attempted to assist himin counting his gold.'I don't want your help,' she snapped; 'I can get them for myself.''I beg your pardon!' I hastened to reply.'Were you asked to tea?' she demanded, tying an apron over her neat black frock, and standing with a spoonfulof the leaf poised over the pot.'I shall be glad to have a cup,' I answered.'Were you asked?' she repeated.'No,' I said, half smiling. 'You are the proper person to ask me.'She flung the tea back, spoon and all, and resumed her chair in a pet; her forehead corrugated, and her redunder-lip pushed out, like a child's ready to cry.Meanwhile, the young man had slung on to his person a decidedly shabby upper garment, and, erectinghimself before the blaze, looked down on me from the corner of his eyes, for all the world as if there weresome mortal feud unavenged between us. I began to doubt whether he were a servant or not: his dress andspeech were both rude, entirely devoid of the superiority observable in Mr. and Mrs. Heathcliff; his thickbrown curls were rough and uncultivated, his whiskers encroached bearishly over his cheeks, and his handswere embrowned like those of a common labourer: still his bearing was free, almost haughty, and he showednone of a domestic's assiduity in attending on the lady of the house. In the absence of clear proofs of hiscondition, I deemed it best to abstain from noticing his curious conduct; and, five minutes afterwards, theentrance of Heathcliff relieved me, in some measure, from my uncomfortable state.'You see, sir, I am come, according to promise!' I exclaimed, assuming the cheerful; 'and I fear I shall beweather-bound for half an hour, if you can afford me shelter during that space.''Half an hour?' he said, shaking the white flakes from his clothes; 'I wonder you should select the thick of asnow-storm to ramble about in. Do you know that you run a risk of being lost in the marshes? People familiarwith these moors often miss their road on such evenings; and I can tell you there is no chance of a change atpresent.''Perhaps I can get a guide among your lads, and he might stay at the Grange till morning - could you spare meone?''No, I could not.''Oh, indeed! Well, then, I must trust to my own sagacity.''Umph!''Are you going to mak' the tea?' demanded he of the shabby coat, shifting his ferocious gaze from me to theyoung lady.'Is HE to have any?' she asked, appealing to Heathcliff.'Get it ready, will you?' was the answer, uttered so savagely that I started. The tone in which the words weresaid revealed a genuine bad nature. I no longer felt inclined to call Heathcliff a capital fellow. When thepreparations were finished, he invited me with - 'Now, sir, bring forward your chair.' And we all, including therustic youth, drew round the table: an austere silence prevailing while we discussed our meal.I thought, if I had caused the cloud, it was my duty to make an effort to dispel it. They could not every day sitso grim and taciturn; and it was impossible, however ill-tempered they might be, that the universal scowl theywore was their every-day countenance.'It is strange,' I began, in the interval of swallowing one cup of tea and receiving another - 'it is strange howcustom can mould our tastes and ideas: many could not imagine the existence of happiness in a life of suchcomplete exile from the world as you spend, Mr. Heathcliff; yet, I'll venture to say, that, surrounded by yourfamily, and with your amiable lady as the presiding genius over your home and heart - ''My amiable lady!' he interrupted, with an almost diabolical sneer on his face. 'Where is she - my amiablelady?''Mrs. Heathcliff, your wife, I mean.''Well, yes - oh, you would intimate that her spirit has taken the post of ministering angel, and guards thefortunes of Wuthering Heights, even when her body is gone. Is that it?'Perceiving myself in a blunder, I attempted to correct it. I might have seen there was too great a disparitybetween the ages of the parties to make it likely that they were man and wife. One was about forty: a period ofmental vigour at which men seldom cherish the delusion of being married for love by girls: that dream isreserved for the solace of our declining years. The other did not look seventeen.Then it flashed on me - 'The clown at my elbow, who is drinking his tea out of a basin and eating his broadwith unwashed hands, may be her husband: Heathcliff junior, of course. Here is the consequence of beingburied alive: she has thrown herself away upon that boor from sheer ignorance that better individuals existed!A sad pity - I must beware how I cause her to regret her choice.' The last reflection may seem conceited; itwas not. My neighbour struck me as bordering on repulsive; I knew, through experience, that I was tolerablyattractive.'Mrs. Heathcliff is my daughter-in-law,' said Heathcliff, corroborating my surmise. He turned, as he spoke, apeculiar look in her direction: a look of hatred; unless he has a most perverse set of facial muscles that willnot, like those of other people, interpret the language of his soul.'Ah, certainly - I see now: you are the favoured possessor of the beneficent fairy,' I remarked, turning to myneighbour.This was worse than before: the youth grew crimson, and clenched his fist, with every appearance of ameditated assault. But he seemed to recollect himself presently, and smothered the storm in a brutal curse,muttered on my behalf: which, however, I took care not to notice.'Unhappy in your conjectures, sir,' observed my host; 'we neither of us have the privilege of owning your goodfairy; her mate is dead. I said she was my daughter-in-law: therefore, she must have married my son.''And this young man is - ''Not my son, assuredly.'Heathcliff smiled again, as if it were rather too bold a jest to attribute the paternity of that bear to him.'My name is Hareton Earnshaw,' growled the other; 'and I'd counsel you to respect it!''I've shown no disrespect,' was my reply, laughing internally at the dignity with which he announced himself.He fixed his eye on me longer than I cared to return the stare, for fear I might be tempted either to box his earsor render my hilarity audible. I began to feel unmistakably out of place in that pleasant family circle. Thedismal spiritual atmosphere overcame, and more than neutralised, the glowing physical comforts round me;and I resolved to be cautious how I ventured under those rafters a third time.The business of eating being concluded, and no one uttering a word of sociable conversation, I approached awindow to examine the weather. A sorrowful sight I saw: dark night coming down prematurely, and sky andhills mingled in one bitter whirl of wind and suffocating snow.'I don't think it possible for me to get home now without a guide,' I could not help exclaiming. 'The roads willbe buried already; and, if they were bare, I could scarcely distinguish a foot in advance.''Hareton, drive those dozen sheep into the barn porch. They'll be covered if left in the fold all night: and put aplank before them,' said Heathcliff.'How must I do?' I continued, with rising irritation.There was no reply to my question; and on looking round I saw only Joseph bringing in a pail of porridge forthe dogs, and Mrs. Heathcliff leaning over the fire, diverting herself with burning a bundle of matches whichhad fallen from the chimney-piece as she restored the tea-canister to its place. The former, when he haddeposited his burden, took a critical survey of the room, and in cracked tones grated out - 'Aw wonder howyah can faishion to stand thear i' idleness un war, when all on 'ems goan out! Bud yah're a nowt, and it's nouse talking - yah'll niver mend o'yer ill ways, but goa raight to t' divil, like yer mother afore ye!'I imagined, for a moment, that this piece of eloquence was addressed to me; and, sufficiently enraged, steppedtowards the aged rascal with an intention of kicking him out of the door. Mrs. Heathcliff, however, checkedme by her answer.'You scandalous old hypocrite!' she replied. 'Are you not afraid of being carried away bodily, whenever youmention the devil's name? I warn you to refrain from provoking me, or I'll ask your abduction as a specialfavour! Stop! look here, Joseph,' she continued, taking a long, dark book from a shelf; 'I'll show you how farI've progressed in the Black Art: I shall soon be competent to make a clear house of it. The red cow didn't dieby chance; and your rheumatism can hardly be reckoned among providential visitations!''Oh, wicked, wicked!' gasped the elder; 'may the Lord deliver us from evil!''No, reprobate! you are a castaway - be off, or I'll hurt you seriously! I'll have you all modelled in wax andclay! and the first who passes the limits I fix shall - I'll not say what he shall be done to - but, you'll see! Go,I'm looking at you!'The little witch put a mock malignity into her beautiful eyes, and Joseph, trembling with sincere horror,hurried out, praying, and ejaculating 'wicked' as he went. I thought her conduct must be prompted by a speciesof dreary fun; and, now that we were alone, I endeavoured to interest her in my distress.'Mrs. Heathcliff,' I said earnestly, 'you must excuse me for troubling you. I presume, because, with that face,I'm sure you cannot help being good-hearted. Do point out some landmarks by which I may know my wayhome: I have no more idea how to get there than you would have how to get to London!''Take the road you came,' she answered, ensconcing herself in a chair, with a candle, and the long book openbefore her. 'It is brief advice, but as sound as I can give.''Then, if you hear of me being discovered dead in a bog or a pit full of snow, your conscience won't whisperthat it is partly your fault?''How so? I cannot escort you. They wouldn't let me go to the end of the garden wall.''YOU! I should be sorry to ask you to cross the threshold, for my convenience, on such a night,' I cried. 'Iwant you to tell me my way, not to SHOW it: or else to persuade Mr. Heathcliff to give me a guide.''Who? There is himself, Earnshaw, Zillah, Joseph and I. Which would you have?''Are there no boys at the farm?''No; those are all.''Then, it follows that I am compelled to stay.''That you may settle with your host. I have nothing to do with it.''I hope it will be a lesson to you to make no more rash journeys on these hills,' cried Heathcliff's stern voicefrom the kitchen entrance. 'As to staying here, I don't keep accommodations for visitors: you must share a bedwith Hareton or Joseph, if you do.''I can sleep on a chair in this room,' I replied.'No, no! A stranger is a stranger, be he rich or poor: it will not suit me to permit any one the range of the placewhile I am off guard!' said the unmannerly wretch.With this insult my patience was at an end. I uttered an expression of disgust, and pushed past him into theyard, running against Earnshaw in my haste. It was so dark that I could not see the means of exit; and, as Iwandered round, I heard another specimen of their civil behaviour amongst each other. At first the young manappeared about to befriend me.'I'll go with him as far as the park,' he said.'You'll go with him to hell!' exclaimed his master, or whatever relation he bore. 'And who is to look after thehorses, eh?''A man's life is of more consequence than one evening's neglect of the horses: somebody must go,' murmuredMrs. Heathcliff, more kindly than I expected.'Not at your command!' retorted Hareton. 'If you set store on him, you'd better be quiet.''Then I hope his ghost will haunt you; and I hope Mr. Heathcliff will never get another tenant till the Grangeis a ruin,' she answered, sharply.'Hearken, hearken, shoo's cursing on 'em!' muttered Joseph, towards whom I had been steering.He sat within earshot, milking the cows by the light of a lantern, which I seized unceremoniously, and, callingout that I would send it back on the morrow, rushed to the nearest postern.'Maister, maister, he's staling t' lanthern!' shouted the ancient, pursuing my retreat. 'Hey, Gnasher! Hey, dog!Hey Wolf, holld him, holld him!'On opening the little door, two hairy monsters flew at my throat, bearing me down, and extinguishing thelight; while a mingled guffaw from Heathcliff and Hareton put the copestone on my rage and humiliation.Fortunately, the beasts seemed more bent on stretching their paws, and yawning, and flourishing their tails,than devouring me alive; but they would suffer no resurrection, and I was forced to lie till their malignantmasters pleased to deliver me: then, hatless and trembling with wrath, I ordered the miscreants to let me out on their peril to keep me one minute longer - with several incoherent threats of retaliation that, in theirindefinite depth of virulency, smacked of King Lear.The vehemence of my agitation brought on a copious bleeding at the nose, and still Heathcliff laughed, andstill I scolded. I don't know what would have concluded the scene, had there not been one person at handrather more rational than myself, and more benevolent than my entertainer. This was Zillah, the stouthousewife; who at length issued forth to inquire into the nature of the uproar. She thought that some of themhad been laying violent hands on me; and, not daring to attack her master, she turned her vocal artilleryagainst the younger scoundrel.'Well, Mr. Earnshaw,' she cried, 'I wonder what you'll have agait next? Are we going to murder folk on ourvery door-stones? I see this house will never do for me - look at t' poor lad, he's fair choking! Wisht, wisht;you mun'n't go on so. Come in, and I'll cure that: there now, hold ye still.'With these words she suddenly splashed a pint of icy water down my neck, and pulled me into the kitchen.Mr. Heathcliff followed, his accidental merriment expiring quickly in his habitual moroseness.I was sick exceedingly, and dizzy, and faint; and thus compelled perforce to accept lodgings under his roof.He told Zillah to give me a glass of brandy, and then passed on to the inner room; while she condoled with meon my sorry predicament, and having obeyed his orders, whereby I was somewhat revived, ushered me to bed.WHILE leading the way upstairs, she recommended that I should hide the candle, and not make a noise; forher master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in, and never let anybody lodge therewillingly. I asked the reason. She did not know, she answered: she had only lived there a year or two; and theyhad so many queer goings on, she could not begin to be curious.Too stupefied to be curious myself, I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furnitureconsisted of a chair, a clothes-press, and a large oak case, with squares cut out near the top resembling coachwindows. Having approached this structure, I looked inside, and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch, very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having aroom to himself. In fact, it formed a little closet, and the ledge of a window, which it enclosed, served as atable. I slid back the panelled sides, got in with my light, pulled them together again, and felt secure againstthe vigilance of Heathcliff, and every one else.The ledge, where I placed my candle, had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner; and it was coveredwith writing scratched on the paint. This writing, however, was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds ofcharacters, large and small - CATHERINE EARNSHAW, here and there varied to CATHERINEHEATHCLIFF, and then again to CATHERINE LINTON.In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window, and continued spelling over Catherine Earnshaw Heathcliff - Linton, till my eyes closed; but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white lettersstarted from the dark, as vivid as spectres - the air swarmed with Catherines; and rousing myself to dispel theobtrusive name, I discovered my candle-wick reclining on one of the antique volumes, and perfuming theplace with an odour of roasted calf-skin. I snuffed it off, and, very ill at ease under the influence of cold andlingering nausea, sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament, in lean type, andsmelling dreadfully musty: a fly-leaf bore the inscription - 'Catherine Earnshaw, her book,' and a date somequarter of a century back. I shut it, and took up another and another, till I had examined all. Catherine's librarywas select, and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used, though not altogether for a legitimateform of a regular diary, scrawled in an unformed, childish hand. At the top of an extra page (quite a treasure,probably, when first lighted on) I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Joseph, rudely, yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine, and Ibegan forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.'An awful Sunday,' commenced the paragraph beneath. 'I wish my father were back again. Hindley is adetestable substitute - his conduct to Heathcliff is atrocious - H. and I are going to rebel - we took ourinitiatory step this evening.'All day had been flooding with rain; we could not go to church, so Joseph must needs get up a congregationin the garret; and, while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable fire - doing anythingbut reading their Bibles, I'll answer for it - Heathcliff, myself, and the unhappy ploughboy were commandedto take our prayer-books, and mount: we were ranged in a row, on a sack of corn, groaning and shivering, andhoping that Joseph would shiver too, so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea!The service lasted precisely three hours; and yet my brother had the face to exclaim, when he saw usdescending, "What, done already?" On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play, if we did not makemuch noise; now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into corners.'"You forget you have a master here," says the tyrant. "I'll demolish the first who puts me out of temper! Iinsist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh, boy! was that you? Frances darling, pull his hair as you go by: Iheard him snap his fingers." Frances pulled his hair heartily, and then went and seated herself on herhusband's knee, and there they were, like two babies, kissing and talking nonsense by the hour - foolishpalaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of thedresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together, and hung them up for a curtain, when in comes Joseph, onan errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork, boxes my ears, and croaks:'"T' maister nobbut just buried, and Sabbath not o'ered, und t' sound o' t' gospel still i' yer lugs, and ye darr belaiking! Shame on ye! sit ye down, ill childer! there's good books eneugh if ye'll read 'em: sit ye down, andthink o' yer sowls!"'Saying this, he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the far-off fire a dull ray toshow us the text of the lumber he thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume bythe scroop, and hurled it into the dog- kennel, vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the sameplace. Then there was a hubbub!'"Maister Hindley!" shouted our chaplain. " Maister, coom hither! Miss Cathy's riven th' back off 'Th' Helmeto' Salvation,' un' Heathcliff's pawsed his fit into t' first part o' 'T' Brooad Way to Destruction!' It's fairflaysome that ye let 'em go on this gait. Ech! th' owd man wad ha' laced 'em properly - but he's goan!"'Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth, and seizing one of us by the collar, and the other by thearm, hurled both into the back-kitchen; where, Joseph asseverated, "owd Nick would fetch us as sure as wewere living: and, so comforted, we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book, and apot of ink from a shelf, and pushed the house-door ajar to give me light, and I have got the time on withwriting for twenty minutes; but my companion is impatient, and proposes that we should appropriate thedairywoman's cloak, and have a scamper on the moors, under its shelter. A pleasant suggestion - and then, ifthe surly old man come in, he may believe his prophecy verified - we cannot be damper, or colder, in the rainthan we are here.'******I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project, for the next sentence took up another subject: she waxed lachrymose.'How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so!' she wrote. 'My head aches, till I cannot keepit on the pillow; and still I can't give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond, and won't let himsit with us, nor eat with us any more; and, he says, he and I must not play together, and threatens to turn himout of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father (how dared he?) for treating H. tooliberally; and swears he will reduce him to his right place - '******I began to nod drowsily over the dim page: my eye wandered from manuscript to print. I saw a redornamented title - 'Seventy Times Seven, and the First of the Seventy-First.' A Pious Discourse delivered bythe Reverend Jabez Branderham, in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough.' And while I was, half-consciously,worrying my brain to guess what Jabez Branderham would make of his subject, I sank back in bed, and fellasleep. Alas, for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! What else could it be that made me pass such a terriblenight? I don't remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.I began to dream, almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning; and I had setout on my way home, with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road; and, as we floundered on,my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrim's staff: telling me that Icould never get into the house without one, and boastfully flourishing a heavy-headed cudgel, which Iunderstood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon togain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there: we werejourneying to hear the famous Jabez Branderham preach, from the text - 'Seventy Times Seven;' and eitherJoseph, the preacher, or I had committed the 'First of the Seventy-First,' and were to be publicly exposed andexcommunicated.We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks, twice or thrice; it lies in a hollow, between twohills: an elevated hollow, near a swamp, whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalmingon the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto; but as the clergyman's stipend isonly twenty pounds per annum, and a house with two rooms, threatening speedily to determine into one, noclergyman will undertake the duties of pastor: especially as it is currently reported that his flock would ratherlet him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However, in my dream, Jabezhad a full and attentive congregation; and he preached - good God! what a sermon; divided into FOURHUNDRED AND NINETY parts, each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit, and each discussinga separate sin! Where he searched for them, I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase,and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curiouscharacter: odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.Oh, how weary I grow. How I writhed, and yawned, and nodded, and revived! How I pinched and prickedmyself, and rubbed my eyes, and stood up, and sat down again, and nudged Joseph to inform me if he wouldEVER have done. I was condemned to hear all out: finally, he reached the 'FIRST OF THESEVENTY-FIRST.' At that crisis, a sudden inspiration descended on me; I was moved to rise and denounceJabez Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.'Sir,' I exclaimed, 'sitting here within these four walls, at one stretch, I have endured and forgiven the fourhundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and beenabout to depart - Seventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The fourhundred and ninety-first is too much. Fellow-martyrs, have at him! Drag him down, and crush him to atoms,that the place which knows him may know him no more!''THOU ART THE MAN!' cried Jabez, after a solemn pause, leaning over his cushion. 'Seventy times seventimes didst thou gapingly contort thy visage - seventy times seven did I take counsel with my soul - Lo, this ishuman weakness: this also may be absolved! The First of the Seventy-First is come. Brethren, execute uponhim the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!'With that concluding word, the whole assembly, exalting their pilgrim's staves, rushed round me in a body;and I, having no weapon to raise in self-defence, commenced grappling with Joseph, my nearest and mostferocious assailant, for his. In the confluence of the multitude, several clubs crossed; blows, aimed at me, fellon other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counter rappings: every man's handwas against his neighbour; and Branderham, unwilling to remain idle, poured forth his zeal in a shower ofloud taps on the boards of the pulpit, which responded so smartly that, at last, to my unspeakable relief, theywoke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabez's part in therow? Merely the branch of a fir-tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by, and rattled its dry conesagainst the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant; detected the disturber, then turned and dozed, and dreamtagain: if possible, still more disagreeably than before.This time, I remembered I was lying in the oak closet, and I heard distinctly the gusty wind, and the driving ofthe snow; I heard, also, the fir bough repeat its teasing sound, and ascribed it to the right cause: but it annoyedme so much, that I resolved to silence it, if possible; and, I thought, I rose and endeavoured to unhasp thecasement. The hook was soldered into the staple: a circumstance observed by me when awake, but forgotten.'I must stop it, nevertheless!' I muttered, knocking my knuckles through the glass, and stretching an arm out toseize the importunate branch; instead of which, my fingers closed on the fingers of a little, ice-cold hand! Theintense horror of nightmare came over me: I tried to draw back my arm, but the hand clung to it, and a mostmelancholy voice sobbed, 'Let me in - let me in!' 'Who are you?' I asked, struggling, meanwhile, to disengagemyself. 'Catherine Linton,' it replied, shiveringly (why did I think of LINTON? I had read EARNSHAWtwenty times for Linton) - 'I'm come home: I'd lost my way on the moor!' As it spoke, I discerned, obscurely, achild's face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel; and, finding it useless to attempt shaking thecreature off, I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane, and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down andsoaked the bedclothes: still it wailed, 'Let me in!' and maintained its tenacious gripe, almost maddening mewith fear. 'How can I!' I said at length. 'Let ME go, if you want me to let you in!' The fingers relaxed, Isnatched mine through the hole, hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it, and stopped my ears toexclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour; yet, the instant Ilistened again, there was the doleful cry moaning on! 'Begone!' I shouted. 'I'll never let you in, not if you begfor twenty years.' 'It is twenty years,' mourned the voice: 'twenty years. I've been a waif for twenty years!'Thereat began a feeble scratching outside, and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up;but could not stir a limb; and so yelled aloud, in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion, I discovered the yell wasnot ideal: hasty footsteps approached my chamber door; somebody pushed it open, with a vigorous hand, anda light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet, and wiping the perspirationfrom my forehead: the intruder appeared to hesitate, and muttered to himself. At last, he said, in ahalf-whisper, plainly not expecting an answer, 'Is any one here?' I considered it best to confess my presence;for I knew Heathcliff's accents, and feared he might search further, if I kept quiet. With this intention, I turnedand opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.Heathcliff stood near the entrance, in his shirt and trousers; with a candle dripping over his fingers, and hisface as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock: the lightleaped from his hold to a distance of some feet, and his agitation was so extreme, that he could hardly pick itup.'It is only your guest, sir,' I called out, desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further.'I had the misfortune to scream in my sleep, owing to a frightful nightmare. I'm sorry I disturbed you.''Oh, God confound you, Mr. Lockwood! I wish you were at the - ' commenced my host, setting the candle ona chair, because he found it impossible to hold it steady. 'And who showed you up into this room?' hecontinued, crushing his nails into his palms, and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. 'Whowas it? I've a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment?''It was your servant Zillah,' I replied, flinging myself on to the floor, and rapidly resuming my garments. 'Ishould not care if you did, Mr. Heathcliff; she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get anotherproof that the place was haunted, at my expense. Well, it is - swarming with ghosts and goblins! You havereason in shutting it up, I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!''What do you mean?' asked Heathcliff, 'and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night, since youARE here; but, for heaven's sake! don't repeat that horrid noise: nothing could excuse it, unless you werehaving your throat cut!''If the little fiend had got in at the window, she probably would have strangled me!' I returned. 'I'm not goingto endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabez Branderham akinto you on the mother's side? And that minx, Catherine Linton, or Earnshaw, or however she was called - shemust have been a changeling - wicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twentyyears: a just punishment for her mortal transgressions, I've no doubt!'Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliff's with Catherine's name inthe book, which had completely slipped from my memory, till thus awakened. I blushed at myinconsideration: but, without showing further consciousness of the offence, I hastened to add - 'The truth is,sir, I passed the first part of the night in - ' Here I stopped afresh - I was about to say 'perusing those oldvolumes,' then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written, as well as their printed, contents; so,correcting myself, I went on - 'in spelling over the name scratched on that window-ledge. A monotonousoccupation, calculated to set me asleep, like counting, or - ''What CAN you mean by talking in this way to ME!' thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. 'How how DARE you, under my roof? - God! he's mad to speak so!' And he struck his forehead with rage.I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation; but he seemed so powerfullyaffected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams; affirming I had never heard the appellation of'Catherine Linton' before, but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when Ihad no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed, as Ispoke; finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed, however, by his irregular and interceptedbreathing, that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heardthe conflict, I continued my toilette rather noisily, looked at my watch, and soliloquised on the length of thenight: 'Not three o'clock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here: we must surely haveretired to rest at eight!''Always at nine in winter, and rise at four,' said my host, suppressing a groan: and, as I fancied, by the motionof his arm's shadow, dashing a tear from his eyes. 'Mr. Lockwood,' he added, 'you may go into my room:you'll only be in the way, coming down- stairs so early: and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil forme.''And for me, too,' I replied. 'I'll walk in the yard till daylight, and then I'll be off; and you need not dread arepetition of my intrusion. I'm now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society, be it country or town. Asensible man ought to find sufficient company in himself.''Delightful company!' muttered Heathcliff. 'Take the candle, and go where you please. I shall join youdirectly. Keep out of the yard, though, the dogs are unchained; and the house - Juno mounts sentinel there, and- nay, you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But, away with you! I'll come in two minutes!'I obeyed, so far as to quit the chamber; when, ignorant where the narrow lobbies led, I stood still, and waswitness, involuntarily, to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied, oddly, his apparentsense. He got on to the bed, and wrenched open the lattice, bursting, as he pulled at it, into an uncontrollablepassion of tears. 'Come in! come in!' he sobbed. 'Cathy, do come. Oh, do - ONCE more! Oh! my heart'sdarling! hear me THIS time, Catherine, at last!' The spectre showed a spectre's ordinary caprice: it gave nosign of being; but the snow and wind whirled wildly through, even reaching my station, and blowing out thelight.There was such anguish in the gush of grief that accompanied this raving, that my compassion made meoverlook its folly, and I drew off, half angry to have listened at all, and vexed at having related my ridiculousnightmare, since it produced that agony; though WHY was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiouslyto the lower regions, and landed in the back-kitchen, where a gleam of fire, raked compactly together, enabledme to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a brindled, grey cat, which crept from the ashes, andsaluted me with a querulous mew.Two benches, shaped in sections of a circle, nearly enclosed the hearth; on one of these I stretched myself, andGrimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere any one invaded our retreat, and then it wasJoseph, shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof, through a trap: the ascent to his garret, Isuppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs, swept the catfrom its elevation, and bestowing himself in the vacancy, commenced the operation of stuffing a three-inchpipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful forremark: he silently applied the tube to his lips, folded his arms, and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxuryunannoyed; and after sucking out his last wreath, and heaving a profound sigh, he got up, and departed assolemnly as he came.A more elastic footstep entered next; and now I opened my mouth for a 'good-morning,' but closed it again,the salutation unachieved; for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orison SOTTO VOCE, in a series ofcurses directed against every object he touched, while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to digthrough the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench, dilating his nostrils, and thought as little ofexchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed, by his preparations, that egress wasallowed, and, leaving my hard couch, made a movement to follow him. He noticed this, and thrust at an innerdoor with the end of his spade, intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go, ifI changed my locality.It opened into the house, where the females were already astir; Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimneywith a colossal bellows; and Mrs. Heathcliff, kneeling on the hearth, reading a book by the aid of the blaze.She held her hand interposed between the furnace-heat and her eyes, and seemed absorbed in her occupation;desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks, or to push away a dog, now and then,that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by thefire, his back towards me, just finishing a stormy scene with poor Zillah; who ever and anon interrupted herlabour to pluck up the corner of her apron, and heave an indignant groan.'And you, you worthless - ' he broke out as I entered, turning to his daughter-in-law, and employing an epithetas harmless as duck, or sheep, but generally represented by a dash - . 'There you are, at your idle tricks again!The rest of them do earn their bread - you live on my charity! Put your trash away, and find something to do.You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sight - do you hear, damnable jade?''I'll put my trash away, because you can make me if I refuse,' answered the young lady, closing her book, andthrowing it on a chair. 'But I'll not do anything, though you should swear your tongue out, except what Iplease!'Heathcliff lifted his hand, and the speaker sprang to a safer distance, obviously acquainted with its weight.Having no desire to be entertained by a cat-and-dog combat, I stepped forward briskly, as if eager to partakethe warmth of the hearth, and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enoughdecorum to suspend further hostilities: Heathcliff placed his fists, out of temptation, in his pockets; Mrs.Heathcliff curled her lip, and walked to a seat far off, where she kept her word by playing the part of a statueduring the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast, and, at the first gleamof dawn, took an opportunity of escaping into the free air, now clear, and still, and cold as impalpable ice.My landlord halloed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden, and offered to accompany meacross the moor. It was well he did, for the whole hill-back was one billowy, white ocean; the swells and fallsnot indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground: many pits, at least, were filled to a level; andentire ranges of mounds, the refuse of the quarries, blotted from the chart which my yesterday's walk leftpictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road, at intervals of six or seven yards, a line ofupright stones, continued through the whole length of the barren: these were erected and daubed with lime onpurpose to serve as guides in the dark, and also when a fall, like the present, confounded the deep swamps oneither hand with the firmer path: but, excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there, all traces of theirexistence had vanished: and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right orleft, when I imagined I was following, correctly, the windings of the road.We exchanged little conversation, and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park, saying, I could make noerror there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow, and then I pushed forward, trusting to my own resources;for the porter's lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the grange is two miles; I believe Imanaged to make it four, what with losing myself among the trees, and sinking up to the neck in snow: apredicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate, whatever were mywanderings, the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house; and that gave exactly an hour for every mile ofthe usual way from Wuthering Heights.My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me; exclaiming, tumultuously, they had completelygiven me up: everybody conjectured that I perished last night; and they were wondering how they must setabout the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet, now that they saw me returned, and, benumbed to myvery heart, I dragged up-stairs; whence, after putting on dry clothes, and pacing to and fro thirty or fortyminutes, to restore the animal heat, I adjourned to my study, feeble as a kitten: almost too much so to enjoythe cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant had prepared for my refreshment.WHAT vain weathercocks we are! I, who had determined to hold myself independent of all social intercourse,and thanked my stars that, at length, I had lighted on a spot where it was next to impracticable - I, weakwretch, after maintaining till dusk a struggle with low spirits and solitude, was finally compelled to strike mycolours; and under pretence of gaining information concerning the necessities of my establishment, I desiredMrs. Dean, when she brought in supper, to sit down while I ate it; hoping sincerely she would prove a regulargossip, and either rouse me to animation or lull me to sleep by her talk.'You have lived here a considerable time,' I commenced; 'did you not say sixteen years?''Eighteen, sir: I came when the mistress was married, to wait on her; after she died, the master retained me forhis housekeeper.''Indeed.'There ensued a pause. She was not a gossip, I feared; unless about her own affairs, and those could hardlyinterest me. However, having studied for an interval, with a fist on either knee, and a cloud of meditation overher ruddy countenance, she ejaculated - 'Ah, times are greatly changed since then!''Yes,' I remarked, 'you've seen a good many alterations, I suppose?''I have: and troubles too,' she said.'Oh, I'll turn the talk on my landlord's family!' I thought to myself. 'A good subject to start! And that prettygirl-widow, I should like to know her history: whether she be a native of the country, or, as is more probable,an exotic that the surly INDIGENAE will not recognise for kin.' With this intention I asked Mrs. Dean whyHeathcliff let Thrushcross Grange, and preferred living in a situation and residence so much inferior. 'Is he notrich enough to keep the estate in good order?' I inquired.'Rich, sir!' she returned. 'He has nobody knows what money, and every year it increases. Yes, yes, he's richenough to live in a finer house than this: but he's very near - close-handed; and, if he had meant to flit toThrushcross Grange, as soon as he heard of a good tenant he could not have borne to miss the chance ofgetting a few hundreds more. It is strange people should be so greedy, when they are alone in the world!''He had a son, it seems?''Yes, he had one - he is dead.''And that young lady, Mrs. Heathcliff, is his widow?''Yes.''Where did she come from originally?''Why, sir, she is my late master's daughter: Catherine Linton was her maiden name. I nursed her, poor thing! Idid wish Mr. Heathcliff would remove here, and then we might have been together again.''What! Catherine Linton?' I exclaimed, astonished. But a minute's reflection convinced me it was not myghostly Catherine. Then,' I continued, 'my predecessor's name was Linton?''It was.''And who is that Earnshaw: Hareton Earnshaw, who lives with Mr. Heathcliff? Are they relations?''No; he is the late Mrs. Linton's nephew.''The young lady's cousin, then?''Yes; and her husband was her cousin also: one on the mother's, the other on the father's side: Heathcliffmarried Mr. Linton's sister.''I see the house at Wuthering Heights has "Earnshaw" carved over the front door. Are they an old family?''Very old, sir; and Hareton is the last of them, as our Miss Cathy is of us - I mean, of the Lintons. Have youbeen to Wuthering Heights? I beg pardon for asking; but I should like to hear how she is!''Mrs. Heathcliff? she looked very well, and very handsome; yet, I think, not very happy.''Oh dear, I don't wonder! And how did you like the master?''A rough fellow, rather, Mrs. Dean. Is not that his character?'Rough as a saw-edge, and hard as whinstone! The less you meddle with him the better.''He must have had some ups and downs in life to make him such a churl. Do you know anything of hishistory?''It's a cuckoo's, sir - I know all about it: except where he was born, and who were his parents, and how he gothis money at first. And Hareton has been cast out like an unfledged dunnock! The unfortunate lad is the onlyone in all this parish that does not guess how he has been cheated.''Well, Mrs. Dean, it will be a charitable deed to tell me something of my neighbours: I feel I shall not rest if Igo to bed; so be good enough to sit and chat an hour.''Oh, certainly, sir! I'll just fetch a little sewing, and then I'll sit as long as you please. But you've caught cold: Isaw you shivering, and you must have some gruel to drive it out.'The worthy woman bustled off, and I crouched nearer the fire; my head felt hot, and the rest of me chill:moreover, I was excited, almost to a pitch of foolishness, through my nerves and brain. This caused me tofeel, not uncomfortable, but rather fearful (as I am still) of serious effects from the incidents of to-day andyesterday. She returned presently, bringing a smoking basin and a basket of work; and, having placed theformer on the hob, drew in her seat, evidently pleased to find me so companionable.Before I came to live here, she commenced - waiting no farther invitation to her story - I was almost always atWuthering Heights; because my mother had nursed Mr. Hindley Earnshaw, that was Hareton's father, and Igot used to playing with the children: I ran errands too, and helped to make hay, and hung about the farmready for anything that anybody would set me to. One fine summer morning - it was the beginning of harvest,I remember - Mr. Earnshaw, the old master, came down-stairs, dressed for a journey; and, after he had toldJoseph what was to be done during the day, he turned to Hindley, and Cathy, and me - for I sat eating myporridge with them - and he said, speaking to his son, 'Now, my bonny man, I'm going to Liverpool to-day,what shall I bring you? You may choose what you like: only let it be little, for I shall walk there and back:sixty miles each way, that is a long spell!' Hindley named a fiddle, and then he asked Miss Cathy; she washardly six years old, but she could ride any horse in the stable, and she chose a whip. He did not forget me; forhe had a kind heart, though he was rather severe sometimes. He promised to bring me a pocketful of applesand pears, and then he kissed his children, said good-bye, and set off.It seemed a long while to us all - the three days of his absence - and often did little Cathy ask when he wouldbe home. Mrs. Earnshaw expected him by supper-time on the third evening, and she put the meal off hourafter hour; there were no signs of his coming, however, and at last the children got tired of running down tothe gate to look. Then it grew dark; she would have had them to bed, but they begged sadly to be allowed tostay up; and, just about eleven o'clock, the door-latch was raised quietly, and in stepped the master. He threwhimself into a chair, laughing and groaning, and bid them all stand off, for he was nearly killed - he would nothave such another walk for the three kingdoms.'And at the end of it to be flighted to death!' he said, opening his great-coat, which he held bundled up in hisarms. 'See here, wife! I was never so beaten with anything in my life: but you must e'en take it as a gift ofGod; though it's as dark almost as if it came from the devil.'We crowded round, and over Miss Cathy's head I had a peep at a dirty, ragged, black-haired child; big enoughboth to walk and talk: indeed, its face looked older than Catherine's; yet when it was set on its feet, it onlystared round, and repeated over and over again some gibberish that nobody could understand. I wasfrightened, and Mrs. Earnshaw was ready to fling it out of doors: she did fly up, asking how he could fashionto bring that gipsy brat into the house, when they had their own bairns to feed and fend for? What he meant todo with it, and whether he were mad? The master tried to explain the matter; but he was really half dead withfatigue, and all that I could make out, amongst her scolding, was a tale of his seeing it starving, and houseless,and as good as dumb, in the streets of Liverpool, where he picked it up and inquired for its owner. Not a soulknew to whom it belonged, he said; and his money and time being both limited, he thought it better to take ithome with him at once, than run into vain expenses there: because he was determined he would not leave it ashe found it. Well, the conclusion was, that my mistress grumbled herself calm; and Mr. Earnshaw told me towash it, and give it clean things, and let it sleep with the children.Hindley and Cathy contented themselves with looking and listening till peace was restored: then, both begansearching their father's pockets for the presents he had promised them. The former was a boy of fourteen, butwhen he drew out what had been a fiddle, crushed to morsels in the great-coat, he blubbered aloud; and Cathy,when she learned the master had lost her whip in attending on the stranger, showed her humour by grinningand spitting at the stupid little thing; earning for her pains a sound blow from her father, to teach her cleanermanners. They entirely refused to have it in bed with them, or even in their room; and I had no more sense, soI put it on the landing of the stairs, hoping it might he gone on the morrow. By chance, or else attracted byhearing his voice, it crept to Mr. Earnshaw's door, and there he found it on quitting his chamber. Inquirieswere made as to how it got there; I was obliged to confess, and in recompense for my cowardice andinhumanity was sent out of the house.This was Heathcliff's first introduction to the family. On coming back a few days afterwards (for I did notconsider my banishment perpetual), I found they had christened him 'Heathcliff': it was the name of a son whodied in childhood, and it has served him ever since, both for Christian and surname. Miss Cathy and he werenow very thick; but Hindley hated him: and to say the truth I did the same; and we plagued and went on withhim shamefully: for I wasn't reasonable enough to feel my injustice, and the mistress never put in a word onhis behalf when she saw him wronged.He seemed a sullen, patient child; hardened, perhaps, to ill- treatment: he would stand Hindley's blowswithout winking or shedding a tear, and my pinches moved him only to draw in a breath and open his eyes, asif he had hurt himself by accident, and nobody was to blame. This endurance made old Earnshaw furious,when he discovered his son persecuting the poor fatherless child, as he called him. He took to Heathcliffstrangely, believing all he said (for that matter, he said precious little, and generally the truth), and petting himup far above Cathy, who was too mischievous and wayward for a favourite.So, from the very beginning, he bred bad feeling in the house; and at Mrs. Earnshaw's death, which happenedin less than two years after, the young master had learned to regard his father as an oppressor rather than afriend, and Heathcliff as a usurper of his parent's affections and his privileges; and he grew bitter withbrooding over these injuries. I sympathised a while; but when the children fell ill of the measles, and I had totend them, and take on me the cares of a woman at once, I changed my idea. Heathcliff was dangerously sick;and while he lay at the worst he would have me constantly by his pillow: I suppose he felt I did a good dealfor him, and he hadn't wit to guess that I was compelled to do it. However, I will say this, he was the quietestchild that ever nurse watched over. The difference between him and the others forced me to be less partial.Cathy and her brother harassed me terribly: he was as uncomplaining as a lamb; though hardness, notgentleness, made him give little trouble.He got through, and the doctor affirmed it was in a great measure owing to me, and praised me for my care. Iwas vain of his commendations, and softened towards the being by whose means I earned them, and thusHindley lost his last ally: still I couldn't dote on Heathcliff, and I wondered often what my master saw toadmire so much in the sullen boy; who never, to my recollection, repaid his indulgence by any sign ofgratitude. He was not insolent to his benefactor